The 33 Strategies of War 
1
The 33 Strategies of War
The 33 Strategies of War
Author
Robert Greene (author)
Country
United States
Language
English
Genre(s)
Business, Management, Military History, Psychology, self-improvement
Publisher
Penguin Group (HC); HighBridge Audio (CD)
Publication date
January and April 2006
Media type
Print (Hardcover) and CD
Pages
496
ISBN
ISBN 0-670-03457-6 (HC); 978-1-59887-091-6 (CD)
The 33 Strategies of War
by Robert Greene is a "guide to the subtle social game of everyday life informed by the ...
military principles in war.".
[1]
It is composed of discussions and examples on offensive and defensive strategies
from a wide variety of people and conditions such as Napoleon Bonaparte, Lawrence of Arabia, Alexander the Great,
and the Tet Offensive.
[2]
The scope of the book is broad, applying not only to violent conflicts but also social
conflicts such as family quarrels and business negotiations.
The book is di
vided into
five parts: Self-Directed Warfare, Organizational (Team) Warfare, Defensive Warfare,
Offensive Warfare and Unconventional (Dirty) Warfare.
[1]
Each part contains a differing number of strategies, each
in a chapter. Each chapter has a similar layout. Descriptions of battles, political and business situations are
accompanied by Greene's interpretation. There are occasional instructional sections followed by examples. All
chapters end with a "Reversal" to give a brief discussion of where the strategy may not apply, a contrary view or
defense. Throughout the book Mr. Greene includes quotes from a variety of sources. These are incorporated in the
margins and between sections.
Although one reviewer has called the book "an indispensable book, [which] provides all the psychological
ammunition you need to overcome patterns of failure and forever gain the upper hand,"
[3]
another one found it
"perplexing
 —
if not downright unhealthy
 —
[to publish] a book on the lessons of war for everything but war at a
time when we [Canada] are, er, at war."
[4]
Yet another reviewer found the book's coverage of military history
informative, but the political tales "mostly foolish or just plain wrong".
[5]
On Amazon.com, the majority of the
reviews on the book are positive.
The 33 Strategies of War 
was part of the reading list for youths attending the Indigenous Leadership Forum
organised by the University of Victoria, which aimed to redesign radical Indigenous politics and the Indigenist
movement.
[6]
It is also read by students attending a Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary course in Christian
apologetics.
[7]
